v7.19.0 (#14829)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.19.0

_Oct 4, 2024_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 26 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 🔁 Automatic parents and children selection for Data Grid "tree data" and "row grouping" features

Reviewer: Should we replace `"tree data"` with a link to the tree data doc? (same for row grouping)

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.19.0`, plus:

- [DataGridPremium] Automatic parents and children selection (#13757) @MBilalShafi

### Date and Time Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.19.0`

- [pickers] Fix left-right keyboard nav with `yearsOrder="desc"` and `direction="rtl"` (#14682) @thomasmoon
- [pickers] Improve `PickerValidDate` type (#14771) @flaviendelangle
- [pickers] Improve typing of the range pickers (#14716) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Add Bulgarian (bg-BG) locale (#14469) @GMchris
- [l10n] Add Croatian (hr-HR) locale (#14795) @arminmeh
- [l10n] Add Portuguese (pt-PT) locale (#14722) @ruiaraujo012
- [l10n] Improve Czech (cs-CZ) locale (#14732) @JakubSveda
- [l10n] Improve Portuguese (pt-BR) locale (#14725) @arthurbalduini

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@7.19.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.19.0`.

### Charts

#### `@mui/x-charts@7.19.0`

- [charts] Fix `LineChart` area animation being stuck when resizing container (#14711) @alexfauquette

> - [charts] Type improvements & `warnOnce` usage (#14792) @JCQuintas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [charts] Improve types and start using `warnOnce` (#14792) @JCQuintas
```

#### `@mui/x-charts-pro@7.0.0-beta.3` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-charts@7.19.0`.

### Tree View

#### `@mui/x-tree-view@7.19.0`

- [TreeView] Apply experimental features in `getDefaultizedParams` instead of in the plugin render (#14661) @flaviendelangle
- [TreeView] Export `publicAPI` form `useTreeItem2Utils` (#14729) @noraleonte

> - [TreeView] Fix Cursor navigation interferes with browser shortcut keys  (#14798) @sai6855

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [TreeView] Fix cursor navigation interfering with browser shortcut keys  (#14798) @sai6855
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.19.0

_Oct 4, 2024_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 26 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 💫 Support `minHeight` and `maxHeight` on flex parent container for the Data Grid component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ✅ Automatic parents and children selection in the Data Grid Premium component
- 💫 Support `minHeight` and `maxHeight` on flex parent container for the Data Grid component
```

> - 🎁 Export `publicAPI` form `useTreeItem2Utils` in the TreeView component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🎁 Export `publicAPI` from the `useTreeItem2Utils` hook for the Tree View.
```

@AWAIS97, @chucamphong, @GMchris, @JakubSveda, @k-rajat19, @k725, @lhilgert9, @ruiaraujo012, @Sanderand, @thomasmoon, @vallereaugabriel.
Following are all team members who have contributed to this release:
@alexfauquette, @arminmeh, @arthurbalduini, @cherniavskii, @flaviendelangle, @Janpot, @JCQuintas, @KenanYusuf, @MBilalShafi, @michelengelen, @noraleonte, @oliviertassinari, @romgrk, @sai6855, @samuelsycamore.

<!--/ HIGHLIGHT_ABOVE_SEPARATOR /-->

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@7.19.0`

- [DataGrid] Fix column definition `undefined` value (#14456) @sai6855
- [DataGrid] Fix `checkboxSelectionVisibleOnly` reset the selection on filtering (#14677) @MBilalShafi
- [DataGrid] Fix background colors when `CSSVarsProvider` is used (#12901) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Fix error when initializing aggregation with row spanning (#14710) @MBilalShafi
- [DataGrid] Fix scroll to cell logic for keyboard navigating cells and drag selection with pinned columns (#14550) @KenanYusuf
- [DataGrid] Support `minHeight` and `maxHeight` on flex parent container (#14614) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Use `event.type` for detecting IME key press (#14146) @k-rajat19

> - [DataGrid] Revert "use `event.type` for detecting IME key press" (#14803) @romgrk

Reviewer 3: These can be removed.

- [l10n] Add missing Portuguese (pt-PT) translations (#14707) @ruiaraujo012
- [l10n] Improve Bulgarian (bg-BG) locale (#14451) @GMchris
- [l10n] Improve Croatian (hr-HR) locale (#14794) @arminmeh
- [l10n] Improve French (fr-FR) locale (#14750) @vallereaugabriel
- [l10n] Improve German (de-DE) locale (#14755) @lhilgert9
- [l10n] Improve Japanese (ja-JP) locale (#14381) @k725
- [l10n] Improve Vietnamese (vi-VN) locale (#14769) @chucamphong

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.19.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@7.19.0`, plus:

- [DataGridPro] Fix dragging styles removal in column reorder (#14680) @k-rajat19
- [DataGridPro] Fix row pre-processing running with a stale data source (#14810) @MBilalShafi

> - [DataGridPro] `onRowsScrollEnd` not firing on very fast scrolling (#14171) @arminmeh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGridPro] Fix `onRowsScrollEnd` not firing on very fast scrolling (#14171) @arminmeh
```

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@7.19.0` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.19.0`, plus:

- [DataGridPremium] Automatic parents and children selection (#13757) @MBilalShafi

### Date and Time Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.19.0`

- [pickers] Fix left-right keyboard nav with `yearsOrder="desc"` and `direction="rtl"` (#14682) @thomasmoon
- [pickers] Improve `PickerValidDate` type (#14771) @flaviendelangle
- [pickers] Improve typing of the range pickers (#14716) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Add Bulgarian (bg-BG) locale (#14469) @GMchris
- [l10n] Add Croatian (hr-HR) locale (#14795) @arminmeh
- [l10n] Add Portuguese (pt-PT) locale (#14722) @ruiaraujo012
- [l10n] Improve Czech (cs-CZ) locale (#14732) @JakubSveda
- [l10n] Improve Portuguese (pt-BR) locale (#14725) @arthurbalduini

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@7.19.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.19.0`.

### Charts

#### `@mui/x-charts@7.19.0`

> - [charts] Fix area appearing (#14711) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [charts] Fix `LineChart` area animation being stuck when resizing container (#14711) @alexfauquette
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.19.0

_Oct 4, 2024_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 26 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - ✅ Automatic parents and children selection in the Data Grid Premium component

Reviewer 5: Might relate it to the features rather than package?
```suggestion
- 🔁 Automatic parents and children selection for Data Grid "tree data" and "row grouping" features
```

- 💫 Support `minHeight` and `maxHeight` on flex parent container for the Data Grid component
- 🎁 Export `publicAPI` form `useTreeItem2Utils` in the TreeView component

> - 🌍 Improve Bulgarian (bg-BG), Croatian (hr-HR), French (fr-FR), German (de-DE), Japanese (ja-JP) and Vietnamese (vi-VN) locales and add Portuguese (pt-PT) locale on the Data Grid component

Reviewer 5: Nitpick: separate 
```suggestion
- 🌍 Add Portuguese (pt-PT) locale on the Data Grid component
- 🌍 Improve Bulgarian (bg-BG), Croatian (hr-HR), French (fr-FR), German (de-DE), Japanese (ja-JP), and Vietnamese (vi-VN) locales on the Data Grid component
```

Author: I structured it this way because you have similar description for the Pickers

- 🌏 Improve Czech (cs-CZ) and Portuguese (pt-BR) locales and add Bulgarian (bg-BG), Croatian (hr-HR) and Portuguese (pt-PT) locales on the Pickers components
- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 📚 Documentation improvements

> Special thanks go out to our community contributors who have helped make this release possible:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Special thanks goes out to our community contributors who have helped make this release possible:
```

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.19.0`, plus:

- [DataGridPremium] Automatic parents and children selection (#13757) @MBilalShafi

### Date and Time Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.19.0`

- [pickers] Fix left-right keyboard nav with `yearsOrder="desc"` and `direction="rtl"` (#14682) @thomasmoon
- [pickers] Improve `PickerValidDate` type (#14771) @flaviendelangle
- [pickers] Improve typing of the range pickers (#14716) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Add Bulgarian (bg-BG) locale (#14469) @GMchris
- [l10n] Add Croatian (hr-HR) locale (#14795) @arminmeh
- [l10n] Add Portuguese (pt-PT) locale (#14722) @ruiaraujo012
- [l10n] Improve Czech (cs-CZ) locale (#14732) @JakubSveda
- [l10n] Improve Portuguese (pt-BR) locale (#14725) @arthurbalduini

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@7.19.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.19.0`.

### Charts

#### `@mui/x-charts@7.19.0`

- [charts] Fix `LineChart` area animation being stuck when resizing container (#14711) @alexfauquette
- [charts] Type improvements & `warnOnce` usage (#14792) @JCQuintas

> #### `@mui/x-charts-pro@__VERSION-ALPHA__` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### `@mui/x-charts-pro@7.0.0-beta.3` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')
```
